## Pacific Salmon Status Scanner

WSP rapid statuses generated by the WSP rapid status algorithm have been incorporated into DFO’s Pacific Salmon Scanner data visualization tool. 
The Salmon Scanner is an R-Shiny application that can be run directly in R, or in a browser. The Salmon Scanner was designed by salmon experts to support 
their work, and to support decision-making processes. Experts that may benefit from the Scanner include stock assessment biologists, habitat, harvest, 
and hatchery management biologists, Indigenous technical experts, biologists working on SARA implementation, and researchers working on salmon and their 
ecosystems. 

Ths Scanner tool enables users to compare WSP statuses and trends in statuses across Pacific salmon CUs in BC and the Yukon. The tool includes a selection 
of built-in data visualizations designed to aid in scientific discovery and support decision-making processes. Specifically, the Scanner can be used to 
provide updates on the state of the salmon, and to support climate change vulnerability assessments. 

In the Salmon Scanner, rapid statuses should be interpreted as akin to a ‘check engine light’, or other diagnostic tool that can highlight potential 
issues and be used to monitor trends through informal coastwide status scans. In decision-making contexts, WSP rapid statuses are combined with expert 
input and are peer-reviewed to ensure their validity. Such an expert review process is being used to support status evaluations for stock management 
units against their limit reference-points (LRP), as legally required under the modernized Fisheries Act (2019).

In addition to statuses, DFO’s Salmon Scanner provides supplementary information that allows technical experts to explore trends across CUs 
on different spatial, temporal, biological, and management-based levels of aggregation.

The Scanner will be rolled out gradually over the coming months to DFO and external salmon technical experts, through individual and group sessions.

Additional Pacific salmon CUs will be added to the Scanner as application of the WSP rapid status algorithm is expanded.


